Documentation/Introduction/Index.rst, before:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

============
Introduction
============

Over the course of time URLs of existing pages sometimes change. If no
countermeasures are in place, the user will access a no longer existing page
when surfing your site and will then usually end up on an error page.
This is inefficient and impacts the user experience. Many missing pages or 404
/ 410 HTTP status codes in general may negatively affect SEO (search engine
optimization).

Changing URLs can have multiple reasons, sometimes the name of something changes
and the URL should reflect that or pages are restructured on the site.

Redirects act as an important measure to guide users (and bots) to the new
page. This often happens (in the background) without the user noticing it
because the browser will automatically resolve the redirect.
This works similar to a forwarding request when you move and your address
changes, but in this case it is more efficient.

For a better understanding of how redirects work technically read
`MDN Web Docs Redirections in HTTP <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections>`__.

For more information about the types of redirects, see
:ref:`HTTP status codes <http-status-codes>`

What does it do?
================

The TYPO3 system extension EXT:redirects handles redirects within a TYPO3 site.

Features:

-   Redirects module in the backend to view and edit existing redirects
-   Manual creation of redirects in the backend. The redirect information is
    stored in database records in the :sql:`sys_redirect` table.
-   Automatic redirect creation on slug changes (based on sites configuration)
-   Console commands to check the integrity of existing redirects
-   Provides functionality to show information about conflicting redirects in
    system report

.. note::

    EXT:redirects does not handle redirects created via page types "*Link to External
    URL*" (`pages.doktype=3`), "*Shortcut*" (`pages.doktype=4`) or redirects created
    within the web server (e.g. :file:`.htaccess` or web server configuration).

Conventions
===========

Please see the page :ref:`basics` at the end of this document for a general
definition of terms.

When describing parts of the user interface, we use the :guilabel:`gui label`
to mark texts within the UI.

Common names are formatted in *italics* (though this is not used everywhere to
ease readability).

Sometimes the topic of a paragraph is marked in **bold** to ease skimming of
pages for relevant content.

Commit message:

[TASK] Improve readability of ext:redirects documentation
This commit improves the overall readability of the
ext:redirects documentation.

Releases: master, 10.4
Resolves: #95884
Change-Id: Ia15d2f909dcdbb301152142c8fd32989a12687fb
Reviewed-on: https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/72067
Tested-by: core-ci <typo3@b13.com>
Tested-by: Andreas Fernandez <a.fernandez@scripting-base.de>
Reviewed-by: Andreas Fernandez <a.fernandez@scripting-base.de>

Documentation/Introduction/Index.rst, after:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

============
Introduction
============

During the lifetime of a website, the URLs of pages often change. If no
countermeasures are in place, users will attempt to access pages that no
longer exist when browsing your site. Typically, when this occurs an error page is returned.
This is inefficient and impacts the user experience. When multiple missing pages or 404
/ 410 HTTP status codes are returned, the overall SEO ranking is negatively affected.

Changing URLs can have multiple reasons, sometimes the name of something changes
and the URL should reflect that or pages are restructured on the site.

There are many reasons as to why URLs are changed. This can include a restructure
of the site's pages and also occurs when the name of a page is changed.
and the URL in turn changes as well to reflect this.

HTTP redirects act as an important measure to guide users (and bots) to new
pages. This often happens in the background without the user noticing it
because the browser will automatically resolve the redirect.
This works similar to a forwarding request when you move house and your address
changes.

For more technical information on how redirects work, visit
`MDN Web Docs Redirections in HTTP <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections>`__.

For more information about the types of redirects, see
:ref:`HTTP status codes <http-status-codes>`

What does it do?
================

The TYPO3 system extension EXT:redirects handles redirects within a TYPO3 site.

Features:

-   Manually create redirects in the backend. The redirect information is
    stored in the :sql:`sys_redirect` table.
-   View and edit existing redirect records in the redirects backend module.
-   Automatic redirect creation on slug changes (based on site configuration).
-   System reports that display information about any conflicting redirects.

.. note::

    EXT:redirects does not handle redirects created via page types "*Link to External
    URL*" (`pages.doktype=3`), "*Shortcut*" (`pages.doktype=4`) or redirects created
    within the web server (e.g. :file:`.htaccess` or web server configuration).

Conventions
===========

Visit the :ref:`basics` page found at the end of this document for a general
definition of terms.

When describing parts of the user interface, we use the :guilabel:`gui label`
to mark texts within the UI.

Common names are formatted in *italics* (though this is not used everywhere to
ease readability).

Sometimes the topic of a paragraph is marked in **bold** to ease skimming of
pages for relevant content.
