Documentation/Events/Index.rst, before:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _psr14events:

=============
PSR-14 events
=============

The following PSR-14 events are available to extend the functionality:

..  _AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent:

AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent
============================================

React on persisted auto-created redirects.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent>`

..  _BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent:

BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent
==============================

Implement a custom redirect matching upon the loaded redirects or return a
matched redirect record from other sources.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent>`

..  _ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent:

ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent
===================================================

Modify the redirect record before it is persisted to the database.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent>`

..  _ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent:

ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent
===============================================

Modify or enrich view data for the
:php:`\TYPO3\CMS\Redirects\Controller\ManagementController`.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent>`

..  _RedirectWasHitEvent:

RedirectWasHitEvent
===================

Process the matched redirect further and adjust the PSR-7 response.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:RedirectWasHitEvent>`

..  _SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent:

SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent
==================================

Manage the redirect sources for which redirects should be created.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent>`

Commit message:

[FEATURE] PSR-14 event to modify URLs for integrity check
A new PSR-14 event
AfterPageUrlsForSiteForRedirectIntegrityHaveBeenCollectedEvent is added
which allows TYPO3 Extensions to register event listeners to modify
the list of URLs that are being processed by the CLI command :ref:.

Resolves: #106363
Releases: main
Change-Id: Ie3538ae3b0dff6341a4d9f5995621ac7b7877add
Reviewed-on: https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/88604
Reviewed-by: Benni Mack <benni@typo3.org>
Tested-by: core-ci <typo3@b13.com>
Tested-by: Georg Ringer <georg.ringer@gmail.com>
Tested-by: Benni Mack <benni@typo3.org>
Reviewed-by: Georg Ringer <georg.ringer@gmail.com>

Documentation/Events/Index.rst, after:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _psr14events:

=============
PSR-14 events
=============

The following PSR-14 events are available to extend the functionality:

..  _AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent:

AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent
============================================

React on persisted auto-created redirects.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:AfterAutoCreateRedirectHasBeenPersistedEvent>`

..  _BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent:

BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent
==============================

Implement a custom redirect matching upon the loaded redirects or return a
matched redirect record from other sources.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:BeforeRedirectMatchDomainEvent>`

..  _AfterPageUrlsForSiteForRedirectIntegrityHaveBeenCollectedEvent:

AfterPageUrlsForSiteForRedirectIntegrityHaveBeenCollectedEvent
==========================

Fetch and alter the list of URLs checked when calling the :ref:`redirects:checkintegrity <redirects-checkintegrity>`
command.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:AfterPageUrlsForSiteForRedirectIntegrityHaveBeenCollectedEvent>`

..  _ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent:

ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent
===================================================

Modify the redirect record before it is persisted to the database.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:ModifyAutoCreateRedirectRecordBeforePersistingEvent>`

..  _ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent:

ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent
===============================================

Modify or enrich view data for the
:php:`\TYPO3\CMS\Redirects\Controller\ManagementController`.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:ModifyRedirectManagementControllerViewDataEvent>`

..  _RedirectWasHitEvent:

RedirectWasHitEvent
===================

Process the matched redirect further and adjust the PSR-7 response.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:RedirectWasHitEvent>`

..  _SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent:

SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent
==================================

Manage the redirect sources for which redirects should be created.
:ref:`More details <t3coreapi:SlugRedirectChangeItemCreatedEvent>`
